README.md, before:

<a href="https://github.com/kruthi-sb/Cardiac_Events_ML/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=kruthi-sb/Cardiac_Events_ML" />
</a>
# Predictive Analysis of Cardiac Events using Machine Learning Techniques

## Overview
This project aims to predict the risk of cardiac events using machine learning techniques. The dataset used in this project is the Heart Attack dataset from the UCI repository. The project includes data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, and the implementation of multiple machine learning algorithms to build models for prediction.

## Dataset
The Heart Attack dataset used in this project is obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. It contains information about patients who have had a heart attack within the past two years. The dataset includes 14 attributes and 303 observations.

## Methods
1. Data preprocessing
2. Exploratory Data Analysis
3. Machine Learning Algorithms
4. Model Evaluation
5. Validation
6. Hyperparameter Tuning
7. Feature Importance

## Results
yet to complete.

## Conclusions
yet to complete.

## Future Work
yet to complete.

## Installation
To run this project, you will need to have Python 3 and the following libraries installed:

- pandas
- numpy
- matplotlib
- seaborn
- sklearn

## Usage
The code for this project is provided in the Jupyter notebook format. The notebook is well-commented and easy to follow along.

## Author
Kruhti S B
- Email: kruthi.banakar@gmail.com
- Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kruthi-s-b-358956222/

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details.

Commit message:

done with basic readme file

README.md, after:

# Predictive Analysis of Cardiac Events using Machine Learning Techniques

## Overview
This project aims to predict the risk of cardiac disease using machine learning techniques. The dataset used in this project is the Heart Attack dataset from the UCI repository. The project includes data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, and the implementation of multiple machine learning algorithms to build models for prediction. The models are compared and evaluate using various metrics.

## Dataset
The Heart Attack dataset used in this project is obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. It contains information about patients who have had a heart attack within the past two years. The dataset includes 14 attributes and 303 observations.

## Methods
1. Data preprocessing
2. Exploratory Data Analysis
3. Machine Learning Algorithms
4. Model Evaluation using Basic Metrics
  4.1. Accuracy, Precision, Recall, F1 Score or Classification Report
  4.2. Confusion Matrix
5. Hyperparameter Tuning using Grid Search
6. Model Evaluation using Advanced Metrics
  6.1. Basic Metrics or Classification Report
  6.2. Confusion Matrix
  6.3. k-Fold Cross Validation
  6.4. ROC
  6.5. PRC 
  6.6. Learning Curve
7. Feature Importance

## Algorithms Used
Supervised Learning Algorithms for Classification:
1. Logistic Regression
2. K-Nearest Neighbors
3. Support Vector Machine
4. Decision Tree
5. Random Forest
6. AdaBoost
7. Gradient Boosting
8. Naive Bayes
9. Ensemble (experiment)

## Conclusions
It was found that Random Forest performed the best with an accuracy score of 95%.

## Installation
To run this project, you will need to have Python-3 and the following libraries installed:

- pandas
- numpy
- matplotlib
- seaborn
- sklearn

## Usage
The code for this project is provided in the Jupyter notebook format. The notebook is well-commented and easy to follow along.

## Author
Kruhti S B
- Email: kruthi.banakar@gmail.com
- Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kruthi-s-b-358956222/

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details.
